![header](https://i.imgur.com/oQgzta2.png)

[hackEDU](http://hackedu.us) is a non-profit initiative that works with high
school students to start and lead programming clubs at their schools. We
provide all the tools for starting and leading clubs including a baseline
coding curriculum, free software tools, and community building training.

Each club typically spans the school year, regularly meeting weekly or biweekly
for between one and several hours. Clubs are led by high school
[hackers](https://github.com/hackedu/docs/blob/master/meta/blurbs.md#what-is-a-hacker)
who want to bring the [hackathon](https://sendgrid.com/blog/why-hackathon/)
culture back to their schools.

#### Why hackEDU?

Instead of focusing on teaching a set curriculum at hack clubs, hackEDU focuses
on building all-inclusive families where members build things together. This
results in: (1) hack clubs engaging groups that are underrepresented in computer
science and attracting members who might not normally sign up for computer
science classes, and (2) building confidence, courage, and skills in members
through integration with the broader hacking community.
    
## Metrics

![map of clubs](https://i.imgur.com/40aaZII.png)

##### Fall 2014 Pilot

- 24 clubs in 11 states and two countries
- over 1000 members
  - 35% women (double the national average of 18% [[source]](http://media.collegeboard.com/digitalServices/pdf/research/2014/Program-Summary-Report-2014.xls)) 
  - 18% minority ethnicities in technology (three times the national average of 5% [[source]](http://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/2014/12/29/usa-today-analysis-finds-minorities-underrepresented-in-non-tech-tech-jobs/20868353))    

##### What our hackers have been up to

At the top two collegiate hackathons in the world, [PennApps
X](http://2014f.pennapps.com/) and [MHacks
V](http://mhacksv.challengepost.com/), half of the six winning teams were led
high school students. All of these winning high school teams are part of
hackEDU.

Most recently, [Rohith Varanasi](http://rohithvaranasi.com/), one of our club
leaders from South Brunswick High School, and the rest of his team from [MHacks
IV](http://mhacks-iv.challengepost.com/) were named the [Major League Hacking +
Thiel 2014 Rookie of the
Year](http://news.mlh.io/cosmos-thiel-rookie-year-2014-mlh-fall-season-02-09-2015)
for creating [Cosmos
Browser](http://www.androidauthority.com/cosmos-browser-sms-data-connection-526654/).
Another one of our leaders, [Raphael Kats](http://raphaelrk.com/), created
[DataWave](http://challengepost.com/software/datawave), another data-less
browser using radio waves at MHacks V and won 2nd place.
