# TEDx Teen Application

### Your Info

##### First Name

Zach

##### Middle Name

Robert

##### Last Name

Latta

##### Your Age

17

### Your Contact Info

##### E-Mail

zach@hackedu.us

##### Address 1

4080 18th Street

##### Address 2

N/A

##### City

San Francisco

##### State / Province

California

##### Country

United States

##### Zip Code / Postal Code

94114

##### Telephone

310-801-7309

### Online & Social Media

##### Website

http://zachlatta.com

##### Twitter

https://twitter.com/zachlatta

##### Facebook

https://facebook.com/crynix

##### Other Social Media Accounts

GitHub: https://github.com/zachlatta

### Please tell us about yourself

I am the founder of hackEDU, a nonprofit dedicated to helping high school
students start programming clubs. My previous employers include Yo, where I
built the backend architecture for an app with over 3 million users, and Run
Games, where I helped develop our flagship game, Football Heroes, and grew it
to over a million users. I spend my spare time attending weekend hackathons
and learning new programming languages.

I started programming in the third grade when my friends and I built a website
about Club Penguin, a video game that we all played. Learning to program made
me realize that I can do anything or become anyone I want to be. That feeling
of agency has helped define who I am today.

I believe that hackers, people who create what they see missing in the world
and aren't afraid to break the rules, are the people who will solve the world's
biggest problems and I see it as my duty to give everyone the chance at
becoming a hacker. I believe that everyone, regardless of race, gender, or
socioeconomic status, deserves a fair chance at learning computer
programming and becoming a hacker.   

### What is your talk idea about?

_*still need to complete*_

I'd like to talk about the organization I started, hackEDU.

### How does your talk idea relate to our theme, "Simply Irresistible"?

_*still need to complete*_

* What TEDx Teen wants:
  * Simple, yet complex.
  * Simple, yet sophisticated
  * Simple, yet big, meaningful... inspirational
  * These are simply irresistible... to adopt, to join, to follow
* We challenge you to find simply irresistible solutions to the complex issues
  we face everyday.
* Complex issues we solve
  * Agency
    * Empowerment
* I'd like to talk about hackEDU
  * Something as simple at programming clubs--just a group of people meeting
    after school and doing things that they find fun

### Please write 3 words that best describe you, what you do, or what you care about

* Hacker
* Agency
* Pragmatic

### What should we know about you that we didn't ask?

I get ridiculously excited when building things.

It's not uncommon to find me nerding out late at night learning a new
programming language (Rust is what's kept me busy recently
http://www.rust-lang.org/) or building a tool for myself.

While I mentioned hackathons (12-48 hour coding competitions) in my personal
summary, I didn't mention how much of a role they play in my life. In the past
year alone I've been to over 20 hackathons and, since late January 2015, I've
been at one every weekend. Through hackathons I've made nearly all of my
friends and gotten integrated into the technology industry. I'm the youngest
winner of PennApps, the University of Pennsylvania's hackathon (>1000
attendees).

### Have you ever spoken at a TED or TEDx event before?

No.

### If you have spoken at a TED or TEDx event(s), please list the name(s) here

N/A

### You may submit one link that helps us get to know you (a video, an article, etc)
