# Echoing Green Application

hackEDU's nonprofit YC application for 2014.

## Application

### Screening Questions

*You must be able to answer YES truthfully to each of the following questions in
order to be eligible for an Echoing Green Global Fellowship and/or a BMA
Fellowship or a Climate Fellowship.*

*Are you (and your partner, if applicable) the primary decision maker(s) for
your organization?*

Yes

**Is this organization your original idea?**

Yes

**Is your organization fully independent from any parent or partner
organizations? (Fiscal sponsors are acceptable)**

Yes

**Is your organization in the start-up phase?**

Yes

**As of this moment, would Echoing Green's funding qualify us as a significant
early funder?**

Yes

**If you have not already, are you prepared to leave your current job or status
as a full-time student in order to pursue your idea during the full term of the
Fellowship?**

Yes

**Are you (and your partner, if applicable) at least 18 years of age?**

Yes

**Do you (and your partner, if applicable) have sufficient English fluency to
participate in required interviews and events?**

Yes

**Can you certify that your organization is NOT a research project, political
lobbying project, OR a faith-based project promoting a specific denomination?**

Yes

### Primary Applicant Information

**Organization Name**

hackEDU

**First Name**

Jonathan

**Last Name**

Leung

**Email**

jonathan at hackedu dot us [*modified to avoid scraping*]

**Phone**

[redacted]

**Street Address (Line 1)**

[redacted]

**City**

San Francisco

**State (U.S.)**

CA

**State/Province (outside U.S.)**

[*left blank*]

**Zip or Postal Code**

[redacted]

**Country**

US

**Country of Citizenship**

US

**If you plan to work in the United States and are not a U.S. citizen, are you
already authorized to work here? Not Applicable**

[*left blank*]

**Date of Birth**

[redacted]

**Gender**

Male

**What is your ethnic/racial background?**

Asian (including Indian Subcontinent), Asian-American

**What is your highest level of education?**

Bachelor's degree

**How did you hear about the Echoing Green Fellowship?**

Fellow

**Please list the name of the specific person who referred you to Echoing
Green?**

[redacted]

**Have you (or your partner) applied for an Echoing Green Fellowship before?**

No

#### Primary Applicant Resume

[link to attached resume](http://f.cl.ly/items/0L0E1P1W2D2w163D0D3S/JonathanLeung.pdf)

#### References

[redacted]

### Organization Information

**Organization website:**

https://hackedu.us

**Which program area best describes your organization?**

Education

**Which population best describes your constituency?**

General Population

**Where will you initially focus your operations in the next two years?National
(in more than one part of the same country) Select all countries where you
will initially focus your operations (Hold down CTRL button + Click to select
multiple countries)**

United States

**If your intial area of focus is in five or fewer cities, states, or provinces,
list them here.**

Where will your organization have its main office?

**Country:**

US

**State (U.S.):**

CA

**State/Province (outside U.S.):**

[*left blank*]

**How long has your organization been in operation?**

Less than one year

**Which stage best describes your organization?**

Begun pilot testing

**Have you legally incorporated your organization in the U.S. or elsewhere?**

Yes

**How is your organization structured?**

Nonprofit/charitable

**Please list any contests or awards that you have won for this organization or
idea:**

2014 Thiel Summit Pitch Prize

### Short Answer

#### The Organization

**Summarize your organization's mission in one sentence. (150 characters)**

hackEDU empowers high school students to build things they care about with code
through building closely-knit, student-run clubs in high schools.

**Summarize your organization's mission and activities in one paragraph. (500
characters)**

hackEDU empowers high school students to build things they are excited about
with code by creating and connecting closely-knit, student-run coding clubs in
high school. Learning coding doesn't just mean you'll have the skills to break
down and solve large problems at work after you get a job. Learning coding means
that you can break down and solve problems that *you* are excited about *now*.
We focus on using coding to shatter the glass ceiling on what high schoolers
think is possible.

**Describe the specific problem your organization is working to solve. Use
statistics and references to identify the size and scope of the problem. (500
characters)**

The problem that we're working to solve is that high schoolers are not creating
projects that they are excited about with code. This is a problem because we
believe the best way to learn programming is to build projects. We see that this
is one of the reasons why the AP CS curriculum is the only STEM field that has
actually seen a decrease in student participation over the last 20 years from
25% of high school students to only 19% (from the NCES).

**Describe the specific products or programs of your organization. (1000
characters)**

We are working to build the best way for high school students to start
programming clubs at their schools, a "club in a box". This currently
encompasses facilitating community development and regular discussion between
club leaders, maintaining recommended resources and partnerships with paid
curriculum providers, and gathering and sharing best practices across all clubs.

At the very core, hackEDU is about building community. We introduce our
constituents to the larger programming communities through events and a
surprisingly strong and active facebook groups, as well as create communities
between club organizers and train them to create strong communities in their
clubs.

Most high school students interested in starting clubs have found us through HS
Hackers, a Facebook community for high school developers exceeding 2,500 members
and lead by my team member Zach, and on Google from searching resources starting
programming clubs.

**How is your approach boldly innovative compared to the status quo? (1000
characters)**

Other similar organizations, such as TEALS, ScriptEd, and Google's CS First,
generally interface with students through teachers or administration. This is a
problem because teachers tend to be non-technical and don't understand maker
culture. This leads to a lot of red tape, bureaucracy, and mandated fixed
curriculum, which ultimately disconnects with students and becomes ineffective.

At hackEDU, we interface with students directly through students. This works
because many students reach out to us instead of the organization having to
reach out to a school to start a club. Because these students are generally
already technical and involved in maker culture, it allows us to onboard new
schools easier and have students build projects they care about instead being
forced through a fixed curriculum.

Judging from enrollment in student-led organizations like Key Club
International, which has 5,000 clubs and a total of 267,000 members, our
potential reach is enormous.


**In what way will the lives of specific individuals be better because of your
organization's work? Please identify the group(s) of individuals and how many
lives will be impacted by your organization's work over time. (1000
characters)**

We believe that building and sharing projects is the best way to inspire
autonomy and agency in high school students learning to program. This is
something that AP CS and many similar organizations don't cater to. Our primary
output is the number of projects finished and shared per member in clubs. We are
also tracking tangential outputs, including hours spent programming both inside
of the club and outside, college attendance, major chosen, and work history.

By not just learning to code, but being able to build real projects that solve
real problems, it allows our constituents to create what they see what they are
missing in the world. This is even more true because we are empowering our
constituents to take lead on not just programming projects but spearhead
organizational endeavors as well.

In five years from now, we want to have a hack club in 15% of high schools in
the US, which would reach over 60,000 high school students at our current
average club size.

#### Organization Budget

**a. In total, how much money have you raised for this organization from launch
to date (in U.S. dollars)? $_____**

$5000

**b. List the names of any individuals or organizations who have provided
greater than $10,000 in funding to date (250 characters) c. How much money do
you hope to spend in 2015? (in U.S. dollars)**

$10,000

**d. Approximately how much money do you think you might need to spend in 2
years (in 2017) (in U.S. dollars)**

$50,000

**3. Approximately how much money do you think you might need to spend in 5
years (in 2020) (in U.S. dollars)**

$100,000

**e. What do you hope will be your main sources of funding over the next two
years? (500 characters)**

Primarily corporate sponsorships from technology companies like Google, Intel,
and Facebook and private grant funding.

#### The Applicant

**When and how did you come up with the idea for your organization? Please list
anyone who could be considered a co-founder. (500 characters)**

My team member Zach started a programming club at his high school because he was
frustrated by the fact that he couldn't do what he loved in school: programming.
Seeing the impact on it's members and meeting other who had done the same, he
started hackEDU. Meanwhile, I had been creating and testing a CS curriculum that
developed autonomy and agency. I teamed up with Zach on hackEDU because I
believed it's student centered was the best thing that could be done to inspire
autonomy and agency.

**Why are you, unlike the majority of people, so passionate about this issue
that you are willing to take the risky leap of starting a new organization?
(1000 characters)**

In school, when I learned that programming could make my friends feel like we
could create anything, not just with code but our own organizations and even our
lives, I couldn't stop myself from sharing this with others.

After I finished school, I designed and led an computer science empowerment
program for 20 young men of color at All Star Code. At a final hurrah for the
program, one of my All Stars, Austin, left a note on my bathroom mirror
"Jonathan thank you for all you've taught me. Now I feel like wherever life
takes me, I'll be more than okay."

After the program, Austin and 7 All Stars started their own organization, The
Young Hackers, and has since independently organized 3 hackathons for the top
high school hackers in NYC. One of the other All Stars told me, "I feel like I
can build or do anything now." When these 8 started All Star Code, most had
barely coded, but now they believe they can create anything they see missing in
the world whether it's with code or not.

**What skills or experiences demonstrate that you will be able to attract money,
people, and other resources to your organization? (1000 characters)**

My mom trained me to know that if I didn't ask for something, I wouldn't' get
it. When I was in highschool, I asked over a dozen restaurants to donate food to
a program I started for the homeless.

While in college, I was one of the lead organizers of PennApps, my school's
hackathon. I was one of the five people that grew it from 90 Penn students to
over 1000 of the best hackers in the world. I personally raised thousands of
dollars in sponsorship per semester from companies including Amazon, Comcast,
and Twilio. I learned how to ask someone to become a judge who were the founders
and CEOs of companies.

When I was at All Star Code, I raised an additional $19,000 of in kind software
donations and found another co-facillitator to join us everyday by creating a
Teaching Fellowship position (see bit.ly/1xL2k1D).

Currently at hackEDU, I acquired office space and free food with complimentary
meals to lower our burn rate at the best coding boot camp in the world, Hack
Reactor.

**Describe one example of your bold, entrepreneurial spirit. (750 characters)**

While organizing PennApps in 2011, I thought it would be compelling for
participants if we could pay for their transportation to our hackathon. I
thought that we would be able to convince Megabus to be our "official
transportation sponsor". They were interested but hesitant because they didn't
want to associate themselves with all the "hacking" that was happening in the
news.

To alleviate their concerns, I innocently sent them the link to the Wikipedia
entry for Hackathon—after I added this: 'Although "hack" is in the root of
hackathon, hackathons have nothing to do with malicious "hacking" done by
hackers, rather the spirit of a hackathon is to collaboratively build programs
and applications.'

https://bit.ly/17dHHzg

**Provide one or two examples of your ability to overcome challenges and
adversity. (1000 characters)**

When I was in college, I joined an organization that I was very excited about.
There was one project that we were working on that I thought that would be great
to experiment on. When I excitedly told the team about experiments I did, they
were not happy, almost to the point of rage. One of the leads of the
organization sat down with me to calmly explain the situation and why it had the
negative consequences which it did. I was almost asked to leave the organization
but because the end of the term was finishing up, so they let me stay.

Initially, I was traumatized. I was put a lot of effort into something I thought
I was helpful. At first I blamed the culture of the organization and that they
didn't appreciate people taking initiative, but only after I had left did I
realize it was my lack of communication with the rest of the team that caused
the issue. From that point forward, I made sure that I was as clear and
transparent as I could be with teammates.

**If you have previously applied for an Echoing Green Fellowship for this or any
similar idea, what has changed since you last applied? (500 characters)
\*Required for past applicants**

[*left blank*]

### Additional Information for Partnerships

Step 6 is only required for applicants applying as a partnership. If you are NOT
applying as a partnership, leave this page blank and proceed to the next page.

*[this section was left blank because Echoing Green does not permit someone
under the age of 18 from being eligible for the fellowship (Zach is currently
17)]*
