Hi [name],

I saw you had participated in [thing] and wanted to reach out.

(OR POTENTIALLY LIST MUTUAL CONTACTS, SPECIFICALLY WHY YOU REACHED OUT TO THEM)

We've built hackEDU, a set of programming clubs with 1,000 students at 24 high
schools around the country. We think it's silly that students who love music
can join band, students who love sports can join an athletic team, but students
who want to learn to code have to go home and code alone. Our vision is that
every high school in the country will offer programming clubs where students
can code (and learn to code) with other like-minded students.

Until now we've bootstrapped this with $0 in donations. I dropped out of high
school in LA and moved to SF to grow this starting full-time ~5 months ago, and
we've funded it so far by doing contract programming work. We're working on our
501(c)3 and could start writing grant proposals, but we've heard from a number
of folks like you that this vision really resonates with them and that grant
writing will just slow us down.

So that's why we're reaching out directly to ask for your help scaling this up,
to grow this to more schools and give the clubs more operational and financial
support. In addition to the current 1,000 students at 24 high schools, we run a
Facebook group with high school programmers from 1,000 other schools. The
immediate use of donations is to build the "playbook" for starting awesome
programming clubs at these schools, and then help students open programming
clubs at some of those 1,000 high schools when the next school year starts
(this year).

(MAYBE INCLUDE PARAGRAPH ABOUT SERVING UNDERPRIVILEGED/UNDERRPRESENTED
POPULATIONS)

Is this something you're interested in contributing to? If so, I'd love to talk
on the phone (and, if you're interested, put you in touch with some students
and faculty sponsors at the existing clubs). Our initial fundraising deadline
is April 11 (so we have time for some iterations before the current school year
ends).

- [name]
